# SentimentAnalysis_NaturalDisaster
Mitigating the effects of Natural Disasters involves a major effort, requiring a deep understanding of vulnerabilities exploited, of devastating natural disasters like tsunami, earthquake and floods and of the ramifications of the natural disaster. Given the ever-increasing frequency of disasters like flood in India, being able to prioritize the response based on their potential impact and distribute resources accordingly is useful for an effective use of resources. But how can one predict the impact of a natural disaster at its onset? Evidence shows that public discourse in online sources, such as social media, blogs, and forums, is strongly correlated with the occurrence of real world behavior. We aim to investigate whether the same information can provide a reliable predictive indicator of the impact of natural disasters. Specifically, we want to design algorithms for applying sentiment analysis to user posts on twitter, blogs and forums related to natural disaster to efficiently make a prediction of the impact of those natural disasters.

Some of our preliminiary work has shown a promising result of using sentiment analysis to predict the impact of a natural disaster. For example, we created a basic algorithm using SentiWordNet to implement sentiment analysis on Cyber Attack data (as it is easily available on Kaggle) and our early work has proven to be a success to push us forward to create an efficient algorithm. In the below images, we can see that impact of a cyber attack is linearly related to the sentiment score.
